Add new activity for customized governance game (#694)
publiccodenet/about: activities/supporting-codebase-governance/customized-governance-workshop/index.md

---
type: Index
---

# Customized governance workshop

A customized governance workshop can be used for a codebase that already have some governance in place.

> It may be a draft or already in use, work fine or have some problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This may be governance mechanisms already in place, or a proposed draft.
```

> The state of the governance may suggest what to focus the workshop on but it's strength is leveraging the governance game to socialize understanding of the governance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The state of the governance may suggest what to focus the workshop on, but it's strength is leveraging the governance game to socialize understanding of the governance.
```

> It can be used to highlight conflicting views by stress testing the governance which may make it easier to develop a path forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, it can be used to simply sketch out a currently well functioning mechanism, talk through an initial draft or proposed changes, or used to surface tensions, pain points, or differing understandings. 
It may also be used to talk through different scenarios to stress test the governance mechanism.
```

## The basics

The [general guidelines of how to run the governance game](../game/run-governance-game-workshop.md) can be applied with a few exceptions.

### Starting state

> Instead of drawing a starting state card, ask the participants to use the available cards to describe the actors that are involved and what relationship they have.

Reviewer: ```suggest
Instead starting from a state card, ask the participants to visualize how (the draft for) governance currently works, using the available cards to describe the actors that are involved, and what relationships they have.
```

This step may be quite revealing, so let this take time as it's a good opportunity for the participants to explain how they percieve status quo.
If you can and it makes sense, prepare custom cards for the specific actors in the codebase as it will be easier for participants to relate to them.

### Scenario

The scenario cards are not needed, instead the real situation is used.
If you can get someone in the community to summarize the current situation in the codebase, perhaps why this workshop was called, it can serve as the scenario setting.

### Calamities

The calamity cards may be used or be used as inspiration to make new ones.
Try to capture real fears or questions from the community during the preparation of the workshop.
The more applicable a calamity is to the codebase, the better the discussions will be.

## The outcome

In general, let the game take it's course and time.
Constructing a "complete" model or finishing all the calamaties is not the objective.

> Getting a shared understanding of the governance is, or at least figure out where the views of it differ.

Reviewer: ```
Instead, focus on working towards a shared understanding of the governance, or at least identifying where the views of differ.
```
